> TODO: Validate this page for Blacklight 4.x!

# Customizing the User Interface
## Layouts 

The built-in Blacklight controllers all by default use a Rails view layout called "blacklight", that lives in the Blacklight source. This ends up being a bit confusing, but is the best way we have at present to have out of the box default using a layout with full functionality, without stepping on a possibly existing local 'application' layout. 

To change what layout the Blacklight controllers use, simply implement a method #layout_name in your local application_controller.rb that returns the name of the layout you'd like them to use. 

```ruby
# [from app/controllers/application_controller.rb]
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  ...
    def layout_name
       "application"
    end
  ...
end
```

When implementing your own layout instead of using the stock one, you may want to look at the Blacklight app/views/layouts/blacklight.html.erb file to see what helper methods are called there, to maintain full Blacklight functionality you may want to call these same helper methods. 

* `render_head_content` renders content within the
  html `<head>` tag, which includes document-specific alternative
formats as well as tags generated by plugins, etc.
* `sidebar_items` renders features including sidebar content, e.g. facet
  lists.
* flash messages
* user util links

## Overriding Views (templates and partials)
As a Rails Engine, you can easily override views in your app. You can see what views and partials are provided by looking in `[[./app/views|https://github.com/projectblacklight/blacklight/tree/master/app/views]]` inside the Blacklight source.

Once you find the view you'd like to change, you should create a file with the same name and relative path in your own application (e.g. if you wanted to override [[./app/views/catalog/_show_partials/_default.html.erb|https://github.com/projectblacklight/blacklight/blob/master/app/views/catalog/_show_partials/_default.html.erb]] you would create ./app/views/catalog/_show_partials/_default.html.erb in your local application. Frequently, you will start by copying the existing Blacklight view and modifying it from there.

It is generally recommended that you override as little as possible, in order to maximize your forward compatibility. Look to override either a small, focused partial template, or a helper method of partial template called from a larger template, so your application's version can call out to those same helpers or partial templates within blacklight core code. 

## Overriding the CatalogController
Overriding the Blacklight `CatalogController` implementation is easy, and the skeleton of the `CatalogController` is generated into your application for you when you install Blacklight. 

See the [[Extending or Modifying Blacklight Search Behavior]] for tips and approaches to customizing the catalog.

## Overriding Other Controllers

1. Find the controller you're interested in blacklight's app/controllers/  . 
2. Create a file with the same name in your local app/controllers. 
3. This file requires the original class, and then re-opens it to add more methods.
 
```ruby
require "#{Blacklight.controllers_dir}/some_controller"

class SomeController < ApplicationController
   # custom code goes here
end
```

In that "custom code goes here", you can redefine certain methods (action methods or otherwise) to do something different.  You can also add new methods (again action methods or otherwise), etc. 

It's kind of hard to call 'super' to call original functionality: 

* the ruby language features here make 'super' unavailable, although you can work around that confusingly with the rails #alias_method_chain method. 
* but more importantly, action methods in particular don't really suit themselves to being over-ridden and called by super, because the original implementation often does something you'd want to change but there's no easy way to 'undo' -- calling 'render', which can only be called once. 

So basically, if you find yourself wanting to access some functionaltiy in the original implementation of a method that you also want to over-ride -- the best solution is probably to refactor Blacklight core code to put that functionality in a subsidiary method, so you can over-ride the action method entirely but call that logic from core.  Action methods should be short and sweet anyway. 


## Custom View Helpers

(This is accurate for Blacklight 3.1.1 and subsequent. Before that, things were messier). 

One of the most common things you might need to do is create a view helper -- especially to override some Blacklight behavior implemented in it's own view helpers. The first step is looking at Blacklight source to determine what view helper method you want to override. 

Blacklight comes packaged with several view helper modules. There is a BlacklightHelper in (blacklight source) app/helpers/blacklight_helper.rb , and several others that correspond to specific controller. (Note, depending on version of Rails and configuration, all helpers may get loaded for every request, even ones that are named to correspond only to a particular other controller). 

If you simply created a local helper with the same name as a helper in Blacklight, that will end up preventing the Blacklight helper from being loaded at all though, which is not what you want to do to override. 

We've structured each Blacklight view helper module into two parts to make it easy to selectively over-ride methods. For instance, here's Blacklight's app/helpers/blacklight_helper.rb:

```ruby
module BlacklightHelper
  include Blacklight::BlacklightHelperBehavior
end
```

Now, the actual methods will be found in app/helpers/blacklight/blacklight_helper_behavior.rb instead. 

If you want to over-ride a helper method, copy the wrapper blacklight_helper into your local app, with the 'include' line, and now you can individually over-ride methods from BlacklightHelperBehavior, and the other methods you don't over-ride will still have their default implementation. 

YOUR `app/helpers/blacklight_helper.rb`

```ruby
module BlacklightHelper
  include Blacklight::BlacklightHelperBehavior

  def application_name
    "Bestest University Search"
  end
end
```

One helper you might want to over-ride for customization is #render_document_partial (currently defined in [[blacklight_helper|https://github.com/projectblacklight/blacklight/blob/master/app/helpers/blacklight_helper.rb]]), which you can over-ride to choose differnet local partial views to display a document on search results or detail page, possibly varying depending on type of document according to your own local logic. 

## Adding in your own CSS or Javascript

Within your local application, you can use the [[Rails Asset Pipeline|http://guides.rubyonrails.org/asset_pipeline.html]] to manipulate javascript and css documents.

**todo??** better instructions for over-riding BL's built in CSS using SASS? (jrochkind thought jamesws wrote such already, but can't find them now)

The Blacklight generator added a file to your app at `./app/assets/stylesheets/blacklight_themes/standard.css.scss`, elements of the BL default theme can be customized or over-ridden there. If there's something you want to do but aren't sur e the best way, feel free to ask on the listserv. 